# Clifford Algebras and the Clifford Product Calculator
Clifford algebras are a special type of algebra in which vectors in an *n* dimensional vector space can be added and multiplied and which comes equipped with a quadratic form in which the square of a basis vector can be defined as a specific element of the field which the vector space comes from.

Elements of Clifford algebras are *multivectors* in which every element can be expressed as a sum of *k blades* which are multiples of a finite amount of basis vectors e<sub>1</sub>e<sub>2</sub>...e<sub>i</sub>. (These include scalars which are not multiplied by any basis vectors at all.) The Clifford product of two multivectors are defined to be associative and to be distributive over addition.

This calculator uses the *geometric product* with *Euclidean metric* over an *n*-dimensional vector space over the real numbers. For all *i*, e<sub>i</sub><sup>2</sup> = +1. In this algebra, the product of basis vectors are anti-commutative, meaning that e<sub>i</sub>e<sub>j</sub> = -e<sub>j</sub>e<sub>i</sub> for all i,j < n and i =/= j. The algebra is also defined to be associative over addition and multiplication (such that a(bc) = (ab)c for all choices of a,b,c) and multiplication is defined to be distributive over addition (a(b+c) = ab + ac for all choices a,b,c). These properties allow the Clifford product to be defined generally by distributing multiplication over all terms and applying the rules mentioned above.

Among other reasons, Clifford Algebras are of interest because they can be used to generalize complex numbers, quaternions and Pauli Spin Matrices.

# Using the Clifford Product Calculator
This calculator operates in an interactive session which asks for inputs to specify the dimension and coefficients of the two input multivectors. To use it, navigate to the program directory and run:
```
make
.\c-clifford-product
```

# My Implementation
Each multivector of an n dimensional vector space in is represented by an array of size 2<sup>n</sup> where the i-th bit of a number is set to 1 if vector i appears in the clifford product. The program then uses a bitwise xor operation on the array index to represent parallel basis vectors being equal to 1, and then checks how many basis vectors are between in the highest index in the left term and the lowest index of the right. It then flips the coefficient's sign if the number is odd.

# Background
The tensor product of two vector spaces associates vectors in each space with a bilinear map, resulting in a "tensor space". Specifically, for spaces A and B, the tensor product A $\otimes$ B maps each a $\in$ A, b $\in$ B to a $\otimes$ b $\in$ A $\otimes$ B. For all constants c, (ca) $\otimes$ b = c (a $\otimes\$ b). Given basis vectors e<sub>1</sub>,e<sub>2</sub>,...e<sub>i</sub>, the space A $\otimes$ B has basis *multivectors* e<sub>1</sub>, e<sub>2</sub>, e<sub>1</sub> $\otimes$ e<sub>2</sub> ... 

A Clifford Algebra of a given **quadratic form** Q(v) on a **vector space** *V* is the quotient algebra of the tensor algebra T(V) divided by the ideal generated by Q(V). If Q(v) = 0, this algebra becomes the exterior algebra with its product being known as the *wedge product* using the symbol "^". The property of Q(v) = v<sup>2</sup> = 0 is equivalent to the property w ^ v = - v ^ w for all vectors v,w.

The Clifford product of two multivectors can be broken up into symmetric and antisymmetric components. For example, in our geomtric algebra with Euclidean metric, the product of vectors v, w are equal to v.w + v ^ w. Because of the anti-symmetric nature of the wedge product, and because e<sub>i</sub><sup>2</sup> = e<sub>j</sub><sup>2</sup> for all i,j < n, the Clifford product of any two basis vectors will be anticommutative for any choice of quadratic form. (The Clifford product of two arbitrary *multi*vectors will not be anticommutative in general, however.)

# Future Prospects
Right now, this program only uses the quadratic form e<sub>i</sub><sup>2</sup> = +1 for basis vector e<sub>i</sub>. Support for more quadratic forms could be added in the future!
